
# Effects of Bias in the Media
### Author: Stephen Sabo

## **Bias in Media: Background**

It should be clear and obvious to people around the world that some media outlets lean farther left while some outlets lean farther right.  The clearest example of this is CNN versus FOX in the United States, with many people regarding them to be the farthest left and farthest right, respectively.  The biggest question that could be asked of this situation, though, is how does this affect the political world?  In an interview (conducted by Lindzi Wessel of Knowable Magazine) with David Strömberg, a political economist from Stockholm University, David's answer may seem a bit unexpected.

Political research regarding media bias has been going on for quite some time, dating back to the 1930s (rise of mainstream radio) in Europe due to the rise of fascism.  Because it was so easy to broadcast opinion, it became worrisome to many that false information could be spread.  Based on early research, Strömberg added "people's ideological or political standpoints rarely changed (due to media bias).  The reason for that was that Republicans were reading Republican newspapers and Democrats were reading Democratic papers, so people were basically just becoming more firm in whatever belief they had before."  The bias in United States newspapers can be traced to the late 1800s, where most papers identified with a political party and created a more biased publication than what the norm is today.  Strömberg even says that following media that sharers your views can benefit you: "Political accountability works best if voters don't make mistakes. By mistake, I mean voting for a candidate that is not the better candidate for you. If you have a media source that has the same exact preference as you do, and you just follow their endorsement, for example, you would never make a mistake."  But, this also means that, as stated before, democrats will forever stay democrats, and republicans will always stay republican.  This also creates voters blocking out what a candidate views on certain stances, or if they are any good at certain things, while only focusing on very partisan ideals (climate change, economy, human rights, etc.) and making that the only thing they base their vote on.

## **Bias in Media: The Impact**

This led to damaging media bias, and Strömberg claimed bias to be damaging if "you're misrepresenting the facts, suppressing facts or just lying."  This is something that comes up very often in media of today, with current president Donald Trump claiming "fake news" quite often.  It has been proven that false media mixed with media bias has had negative impacts on society, but this usually comes with dictator-esque societies where there is little to no media competition.  "One example was how radio was used by the Rwandan government in the 1990s to, basically, tell people to commit genocide. One study found that where there was better radio reception, there were more civilian deaths. Another study from 2013 shows that the Nazi control over radio broadcasts increased support for anti-Semitic policies in places where there was a prior history of rioting and attacks targeting Jewish communities."  These examples are extreme and are certainly likely to never happen where the press is free and there is plenty of competition for clicks and views.  But, there are instances where there are negative media effects in a democracy with a free press.  "For example, in the run-up to the Iraq War, much of the mainstream U.S. media coverage uncritically supported the government line that Iraq was developing weapons of mass destruction. Outlets like the _New York Times _later apologized for mistakes in their reporting."  A more common issue negative effect media outlets cause is forcing candidates and political figures to talk about things that may not be that important.  This is part of clickbait culture, where real problems that happen every single day aren't really "news" but are certainly problems that need to be tackled.  Media makes headlines about things that are new, exciting, and even scary to try and get more interaction with their websites and social media.  This causes reporters to ask questions about these less important issues rather than getting opinions and plans on tackling real tragedy.  Strömberg says that if people are worried about media becoming too biased, "you have to switch to a different media source if you don't like what another source is doing."

## **Public Perception of Media Bias**

When asked about the effect of media bias on other aspects of journalism, Strömberg says that the bias is not so much as important as the amount of media put out is.  "Because we are emotionally outraged by media bias, we tend to think about it a lot and forget about newspaper deaths and journalist layoffs. But there is much less evidence that media bias matters significantly. There is quite a bit more evidence that the volume of news matters more for making democracy work."  The number of news outlets helps balance out the type of media that gets put out.  There will be pieces written about the same subject from two or more political perspectives, but it is astronomically better than if there was just one outlet all the time.  With more press and more publication companies, it is much harder to silence views of the opposition.

## **Consequences of Bias: Fake News**

Strömberg then goes on to talk about fake news.  "There's two obvious reasons why you see this kind of fake news on social media. One is that those who post fake news want to influence an election, or something else. The other is that it's profitable. We have these fake news-producing sites in Macedonia who know nothing about U.S. politics but they know how to write a news article or post that will get many clicks. The thing that makes social media conducive to fake news is there's much less of a reputational concern for users on Facebook or Twitter. They can write something crazy and then just open up another account, and write something crazy. A media outlet in the U.S., like a local newspaper, cannot do that. Reputation is what makes people pay for their articles."

______________

# Sources: 
[https://www.knowablemagazine.org/article/society/2017/making-sense-media-bias](https://www.knowablemagazine.org/article/society/2017/making-sense-media-bias)