# Approaching Reddit
### Authors: Stephen Sabo, Ali Nabeel

## **What is Reddit?**
#### Ali Nabeel
Reddit is one of the main platforms that lets its user find everything interesting going on in the world, in these modern times surfing a website like reddit.com is like reading newspapers for daily information except that Reddit is more easy to use, timely, interactive, customizable, and really addictive at times. The way it works that its users submit links to Reddit about their desired blogs, posts, images or videos and then other people who happen to go to that site, can vote those links as thumbs up or down. The idea of Reddit is actually very simple, it sounds like a very solid and interesting website, but it turns Reddit into a list of the best stuff that people like and sometimes by some people who are biased to that particular type of thinking or the topic being discussed on the Reddit-page.


## **Reddit: The Front Page of the Internet**
#### Stephen Sabo
When you search "Reddit" on any of your favorite search engines, the top listing will be "Reddit: the front page of the internet."  For many of its users, Reddit acts as the entrance to today's current events, acting as a newspaper for the internet.  Reddit is a social media website consisting of many subreddits (r/) that act as separate pages that all come together to create one large site.  Each subreddit is devoted to its own topic, such as r/funny, r/politics, r/worldnews, and so on.  The point is that Reddit is made up of people from all over the world who come together to talk about absolutely anything.   To show appreciation for posts and comments, a simple upvote/downvote system is used.  Highly upvoted content can make its way to r/all, the real front page of Reddit, for everyone to see.   Each subreddit (also known as a community) has multiple moderators (mods) that take responsibility in maintaining the integrity of the community by doing things such as deleting posts and banning users.   From a user perspective, Reddit is available on smartphones as well as on web browsers, so access is never a worry.  Reddit isn't just used for entertainment reasons, but also news and information.  One of Reddit's cool communities is r/AMA.  Although available for anyone to post in, AMA (ask me anything) is often used by celebrities to host Q&amp;A sessions, giving fans a great insight into their lives.  Overall, Reddit is a tremendous website the allows the user to connect with people from around the world to get information about anything they could think of.

## **Reddit: A How-to Guide**
#### Stephen Sabo
Reddit can be accessed by anyone, but to join a community, make a post, or even comment on another's post, an account must be created.  Once an account is created, a username is then selected.  Users on Reddit appear as u/(username) and will be visible to everyone when you comment or post.  After the account is set up, Reddit then becomes much more personalized based on the communities that you join.  To start, just begin at r/all, and join communities that are relevant to you, whether you enjoy comedy, politics, news, or anything else Reddit has to offer.  Once you've joined a few communities, they can be accessed individually to only see content in that community.  If you just want to see the best (most upvoted) content from the communities you follow, that is what the home page is there for.  The home page can also be set up to show the newest posts from the communities you follow first rather than just seeing the top posts.  Each Reddit user has a karma rating, which somewhat acts as a scoreboard for Reddit.  When you create a post or comment on another user's post and it is upvoted or downvoted, you will gain or lose karma.  Another way that posts and comments are shown appreciation is through awards.  Awards are bought with real money (by users) and are given to posts or comments (by another user).  Gold and silver are two common awards, but communities may also create their own awards that may suit the type of content posted to the community.  So, make your first post, comment on some others, and you are well underway to becoming a regular user on Reddit.


## **Reddit's function in society**
#### Ali Nabeel

The name Reddit roots form the word "read it" as in something that have been already read or explored and has been liked or disliked by the general user population who searching that specific topic. What's crazy about Reddit that there are no editors, because of this you will know that what you will find whether that is funny, or interesting because millions of other users have already voted it as so. Think of it this way, if Google is where you go to search for things, then Reddit is where you go to see the things that people have found but Reddit is not just one list of stuff, it also has sections called subReddits. If you like just politics, programming, funny image captions, sports or world news, there are subreddits that list only that stuff and there's is also going to be a subreddit for your city or country or region. For Example: Love a TV show that ended years ago? , there's a subreddit where people are still talking about it as though it just aired
