# Reddit: The Front Page of the Internet

When you search &quot;reddit&quot; on any of your favorite search engines, the top listing will be &quot;reddit: the front page of the internet.&quot;  For many of its users, Reddit acts as the entrance to today's current events, acting as a newspaper for the internet.  Reddit is a social media website consisting of many subreddits (r/) that act as separate pages that all come together to create one large site.  Each subreddit is devoted to its own topic, such as r/funny, r/politics, r/worldnews, and so on.  The point is that Reddit is made up of people from all over the world who come together to talk about absolutely anything.   To show appreciation for posts and comments, a simple upvote/downvote system is used.  Highly upvoted content can make its way to r/all, the real front page of Reddit, for everyone to see.   Each subreddit (also known as a community) has multiple moderators (mods) that take responsibility in maintaining the integrity of the community by doing things such as deleting posts and banning users.   From a user perspective, Reddit is available on smartphones as well as on web browsers, so access is never a worry.  Reddit isn't just used for entertainment reasons, but also news and information.  One of Reddit's cool communities is r/AMA.  Although available for anyone to post in, AMA (ask me anything) is often used by celebrities to host Q&amp;A sessions, giving fans a great insight into their lives.  Overall, Reddit is a tremendous website the allows the user to connect with people from around the world to get information about anything they could think of.

# Reddit: A How-to Guide

Reddit can be accessed by anyone, but to join a community, make a post, or even comment on another's post, an account must be created.  Once an account is created, a username is then selected.  Users on Reddit appear as u/(username) and will be visible to everyone when you comment or post.  After the account is set up, Reddit then becomes much more personalized based on the communities that you join.  To start, just begin at r/all, and join communities that are relevant to you, whether you enjoy comedy, politics, news, or anything else Reddit has to offer.  Once you've joined a few communities, they can be accessed individually to only see content in that community.  If you just want to see the best (most upvoted) content from the communities you follow, that is what the home page is there for.  The home page can also be set up to show the newest posts from the communities you follow first rather than just seeing the top posts.  Each Reddit user has a karma rating, which somewhat acts as a scoreboard for Reddit.  When you create a post or comment on another user's post and it is upvoted or downvoted, you will gain or lose karma.  Another way that posts and comments are shown appreciation is through awards.  Awards are bought with real money (by users) and are given to posts or comments (by another user).  Gold and silver are two common awards, but communities may also create their own awards that may suit the type of content posted to the community.  So, make your first post, comment on some others, and you are well underway to becoming a regular user on Reddit.

# Effects of Bias in the Media

It should be clear and obvious to people around the world that some media outlets lean farther left while some outlets lean farther right.  The clearest example of this is CNN versus FOX in the United States, with many people regarding them to be the farthest left and farthest right, respectively.  The biggest question that could be asked of this situation, though, is how does this affect the political world?  In an interview (conducted by Lindzi Wessel of Knowable Magazine) with David Strömberg, a political economist from Stockholm University, David's answer may seem a bit unexpected.

Political research regarding media bias has been going on for quite some time, dating back to the 1930s (rise of mainstream radio) in Europe due to the rise of fascism.  Because it was so easy to broadcast opinion, it became worrisome to many that false information could be spread.  Based on early research, Strömberg added &quot;people's ideological or political standpoints rarely changed (due to media bias).  The reason for that was that Republicans were reading Republican newspapers and Democrats were reading Democratic papers, so people were basically just becoming more firm in whatever belief they had before.&quot;  The bias in United States newspapers can be traced to the late 1800s, where most papers identified with a political party and created a more biased publication than what the norm is today.  Strömberg even says that following media that sharers your views can benefit you: &quot;Political accountability works best if voters don't make mistakes. By mistake, I mean voting for a candidate that is not the better candidate for you. If you have a media source that has the same exact preference as you do, and you just follow their endorsement, for example, you would never make a mistake.&quot;  But, this also means that, as stated before, democrats will forever stay democrats, and republicans will always stay republican.  This also creates voters blocking out what a candidate views on certain stances, or if they are any good at certain things, while only focusing on very partisan ideals (climate change, economy, human rights, etc.) and making that the only thing they base their vote on.

This led to damaging media bias, and Strömberg claimed bias to be damaging if &quot;you're misrepresenting the facts, suppressing facts or just lying.&quot;  This is something that comes up very often in media of today, with current president Donald Trump claiming &quot;fake news&quot; quite often.  It has been proven that false media mixed with media bias has had negative impacts on society, but this usually comes with dictator-esque societies where there is little to no media competition.  &quot;One example was how radio was used by the Rwandan government in the 1990s to, basically, tell people to commit genocide. One study found that where there was better radio reception, there were more civilian deaths. Another study from 2013 shows that the Nazi control over radio broadcasts increased support for anti-Semitic policies in places where there was a prior history of rioting and attacks targeting Jewish communities.&quot;  These examples are extreme and are certainly likely to never happen where the press is free and there is plenty of competition for clicks and views.  But, there are instances where there are negative media effects in a democracy with a free press.  &quot;For example, in the run-up to the Iraq War, much of the mainstream U.S. media coverage uncritically supported the government line that Iraq was developing weapons of mass destruction. Outlets like the _New York Times _later apologized for mistakes in their reporting.&quot;  A more common issue negative effect media outlets cause is forcing candidates and political figures to talk about things that may not be that important.  This is part of clickbait culture, where real problems that happen every single day aren't really &quot;news&quot; but are certainly problems that need to be tackled.  Media makes headlines about things that are new, exciting, and even scary to try and get more interaction with their websites and social media.  This causes reporters to ask questions about these less important issues rather than getting opinions and plans on tackling real tragedy.  Strömberg says that if people are worried about media becoming too biased, &quot;you have to switch to a different media source if you don't like what another source is doing.&quot;

When asked about the effect of media bias on other aspects of journalism, Strömberg says that the bias is not so much as important as the amount of media put out is.  &quot;Because we are emotionally outraged by media bias, we tend to think about it a lot and forget about newspaper deaths and journalist layoffs. But there is much less evidence that media bias matters significantly. There is quite a bit more evidence that the volume of news matters more for making democracy work.&quot;  The number of news outlets helps balance out the type of media that gets put out.  There will be pieces written about the same subject from two or more political perspectives, but it is astronomically better than if there was just one outlet all the time.  With more press and more publication companies, it is much harder to silence views of the opposition.

Strömberg then goes on to talk about fake news.  &quot;There's two obvious reasons why you see this kind of fake news on social media. One is that those who post fake news want to influence an election, or something else. The other is that it's profitable. We have these fake news-producing sites in Macedonia who know nothing about U.S. politics but they know how to write a news article or post that will get many clicks. The thing that makes social media conducive to fake news is there's much less of a reputational concern for users on Facebook or Twitter. They can write something crazy and then just open up another account, and write something crazy. A media outlet in the U.S., like a local newspaper, cannot do that. Reputation is what makes people pay for their articles.&quot;

Source: [https://www.knowablemagazine.org/article/society/2017/making-sense-media-bias](https://www.knowablemagazine.org/article/society/2017/making-sense-media-bias)